---
head.title: 'Quickstart - Docker PHP - Server Side Up'
description: 'Get started with serversideup/php Docker Images.'
layout: docs
---

# Quickstart

**serversideup/php** provides a variety of PHP Docker images that are optimized for production use. You can find the list of available images in the [installation guide](/docs/getting-started/installation). For this quickstart guide, we'll use the `serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx-alpine` image.

## Setting Up Your Demo Application

Create a simple PHP application structure:

::code-panel
---
label: Directory Structure
---
```shell
.
├── demo-app
│   └── public
│       └── index.php
├── docker-compose.yaml
└── Dockerfile
````
::

Next, create the `index.php` file inside the `demo-app/public` directory with the following content:

::code-panel
---
label: index.php
---
```php
<?php

phpinfo();
```
::

## Docker Examples

Depending on your production environment, you may have a single small server with docker installed, or you may have kubernetes cluster. Regardless, we'll cover both docker compose and dockerfile options.

The `serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx-alpine` image includes Nginx, pre-configured to serve files from the `/var/www/html/public` directory. For more information on default configurations and environment variables, refer to our [default configurations](/docs/getting-started/default-configurations) and the [environment variable specification](/docs/reference/environment-variable-specification).

### 1\. Running with Docker Compose

Docker Compose is used to define and run multi-container Docker applications, simplifying environment setup and execution.

Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file in your project's root directory:

::code-panel
---
label: docker-compose.yaml
---
```yaml
services:
  sample-app:
    image: serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx-alpine
    ports:
      - "80:8080"
    environment:
      - PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE=1
    volumes:
      - ./demo-app:/var/www/html
```
::

**Explanation:**

* `image: serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx-alpine`: Specifies the Docker image.
* `ports: - "80:8080"`: Maps host port `80` to container port `8080` (where Nginx listens).
* `environment: - PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE=1`: Activates **OPcache**, a PHP extension for performance improvement.
* `volumes: - ./demo-app:/var/www/html`: Mounts your local `demo-app` directory into the container's `/var/www/html` path. Local file changes are reflected in the running container.

To run your application, navigate to your project's root directory in your terminal and execute:

::code-panel
---
label: Run Docker Compose
---
```bash
docker compose up
```
::

Visit [http://localhost](http://localhost) in your web browser. The `phpinfo()` output confirms your application is running.

### 2\. Building with a Dockerfile

A Dockerfile allows you to create a custom, self-contained image that includes your application. This method is suitable for building deployable images.

Create a `Dockerfile` in your project's root directory:

::code-panel
---
label: "Dockerfile"
---
```dockerfile
FROM serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx-alpine

COPY ./demo-app /var/www/html

ENV PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE=1
```
::

**Explanation:**

* `FROM serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx-alpine`: Sets the base image for your Docker build.
* `COPY ./demo-app /var/www/html`: Copies the contents of your local `demo-app` directory into the `/var/www/html` path inside the Docker image.
* `ENV PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE=1`: Sets the environment variable to enable OPcache.

To build and run your image: First, build your Docker image, tagging it as `sample-app` then run the built image, mapping the necessary ports:

::code-panel
---
label: Build and Run Dockerfile
---
```bash
docker build -t sample-app .
docker run -p 80:8080 sample-app
```
::

Then, visit [http://localhost](http://localhost) in your browser. The `phpinfo()` output indicates your Dockerfile-built application is running.

## Next Steps

For further details and advanced usage, refer to the comprehensive documentation.

* [Installation](/docs/getting-started/installation)
* [Default Configurations](/docs/getting-started/default-configurations)
* [Laravel Automations](/docs/laravel/laravel-automations)
* [Environment Variable Specification](/docs/reference/environment-variable-specification)
* [Customizing the Image](/docs/customizing-the-image)
* [Installing Additional PHP Extensions](/docs/customizing-the-image/installing-additional-php-extensions)
