---
head.title: 'Installing additional PHP extensions - Docker PHP - Server Side Up'
description: 'Learn how to add any PHP extension that you need for your application.'
layout: docs
title: Installing PHP extensions
---

::lead-p
serversideup/php includes the [`install-php-extensions`](https://github.com/mlocati/docker-php-extension-installer){target="_blank"} tool by default. This tool allows you to install almost any PHP module that you'll need.
::

## Default extensions
By default, we include a number of PHP extensions to get you up and running. You can learn more why we have certain defaults and what's all included on our default configurations page.

:u-button{to="/docs/getting-started/default-configurations#default-php-extensions" label="Learn more about default extensions" aria-label="Learn more about default extensions" size="md" color="primary" variant="outline"  trailing-icon="i-lucide-arrow-right" class="font-bold"}

## What extensions are supported?
Since we're using [`install-php-extensions`](https://github.com/mlocati/docker-php-extension-installer){target="_blank"}, we have a wide support of extensions across many versions of PHP. You can find the full list of supported extensions on the project's README.

:u-button{to="https://github.com/mlocati/docker-php-extension-installer#supported-php-extensions" label="View the supported extensions" aria-label="View the supported extensions" size="md" color="primary" variant="outline" target="_blank" trailing-icon="i-lucide-arrow-right" class="font-bold"}

## Installing extensions
Once you have your extensions ready for installation, you need to use `root` permissions to install them. In most cases, the best experience is to use a `Dockerfile` to do this while you package your application in a container.

If you're not familiar with the concept of packaging your application for deployment, we recommend you to read our guide on how to do it.

:u-button{to="/docs/deployment-and-production/packaging-your-app-for-deployment" label="Learn more about packaging your application for deployment" aria-label="Learn more about packaging your application for deployment" size="md" color="primary" variant="outline"  trailing-icon="i-lucide-arrow-right" class="font-bold"}

### Preparing your Dockerfile
::warning
**Our images are unprivileged by default.** This means you'll need to switch to `root` to do "root things", then switch back to the `www-data` user. This ensures your container image is hardened against security vulnerabilities.
::

```dockerfile [Dockerfile]
# Choose our base image
FROM serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx

# Switch to root so we can do root things
USER root

# Install the intl and bcmath extensions with root permissions
RUN install-php-extensions intl bcmath

# Drop back to our unprivileged user
USER www-data
```

## Building images with Docker Compose
Here's a simple example with Docker Compose that builds an image with the `intl` and `bcmath` extensions.

::code-tree{defaultValue="Dockerfile"}

```dockerfile [Dockerfile]
# Choose our base image
FROM serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx

# Switch to root so we can do root things
USER root

# Install the intl and bcmath extensions with root permissions
RUN install-php-extensions intl bcmath

# Drop back to our unprivileged user
USER www-data
```

```yml [compose.yml]
services:
  php:
    # Use "build" instead of "image"
    build:
      # Use the Dockerfile in the current directory
      context: .
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    # Expose localhost:80 to NGINX's port 8080
    ports:
      - 80:8080
    # Mount current directory to /var/www/html
    volumes:
      - ./:/var/www/html
```

```php [public/index.php]
<?php
// Let's just print out some PHP info
phpinfo();
?>
```
::

Once we have our project ready, we can bring our container up with:

::tip
We use the `--build` flag to tell Docker to rebuild the image from scratch. Good practice in development if you're making changes to your Dockerfile.
::

```bash [Terminal]
docker compose up --build
```

## Real-life example showing development to production
If you're looking for a more realistic example how this looks from development to production, check out our guide below.

:u-button{to="/docs/deployment-and-production/development-to-production" label="Learn more about development to production" aria-label="Learn more about development to production" size="md" color="primary" variant="outline"  trailing-icon="i-lucide-arrow-right" class="font-bold"}

## Common PHP extensions that you might need
We compiled a list of extensions for you to reference.

| Extension | Description | Why it's not included by default |
|-----------|-------------|--------------------------------
[intl](https://www.php.net/manual/en/intro.intl.php){target="_blank"} | Internationalization functions, [used by Laravel for validating emails](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/validation#rule-email){target="_blank"} with "DNS" or "spoof" validation. | Our tests showed this module will add about 40 MB of space to the Docker image, so we decided to not include it by default. |

::tip{to="https://github.com/serversideup/docker-php/discussions/new?category=q-a" target="_blank"}
Don't see the extension you need? Having trouble? [Open a discussion on GitHub →](https://github.com/serversideup/docker-php/discussions/new?category=q-a)
::
