---
head.title: 'Adding your own start up scripts - Docker PHP - Server Side Up'
description: 'Learn how to use our entrypoint.d directory to customize your container start up experience.'
layout: docs
title: Adding Start Up Scripts
---
::lead-p
We provide a few [default entrypoint scripts](/docs/getting-started/default-configurations#default-entrypoint-scripts) to get you going, but sometimes you want to just add your own. We've made it easy to do that with our `entrypoint.d` directory.
::

## Entrypoint Script Requirements
::note
Before you write your entry point script, be aware of the following requirements. Your script should:
- Be executable (755 permissions)
- Located in the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory
- Have the file extension ending in `.sh`
::
::tip
We recommend writing your script in `/bin/sh` for the best compatibility between Alpine and Debian. If you choose to use `/bin/bash`, your script will only be able to run on Debian-based images.
::

## Choose your execution order
Since [we provide default entrypoint scripts](/docs/getting-started/default-configurations#default-entrypoint-scripts), you may want to choose the order in which your scripts are executed. We've made it easy to do that by prefixing your script with a number. The lower the number, the earlier it will be executed.

::tip
If you want to disable our entrypoint scripts, you can set `DISABLE_DEFAULT_CONFIG` to `true` in your environment variables.
::

## Long running services
::note
Don't use entrypoint scripts for long-running services. You want your services to be monitored and restarted if they crash.
::

Anything in the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory are scripts that are intended to run quickly and then move on. If you run a service as an entrypoint script, that service may crash and not be restarted.

Instead, learn about [using S6 overlay](/docs/guide/using-s6-overlay) so your services can be properly initialized and monitored. See the [S6 Overylay project](https://github.com/just-containers/s6-overlay) for more details on how to write your own S6 service.

## Example: Create a custom entrypoint script
In this example, let's create a `99-my-script.sh` so it executes after all the other default scripts.

::code-tree{defaultValue="Dockerfile"}

```bash [entrypoint.d/99-my-script.sh]
#!/bin/sh
echo "👋 Hello, world!"
```

```dockerfile [Dockerfile]
FROM serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx

# Copy our scripts as executable
COPY --chmod=755 ./entrypoint.d/ /etc/entrypoint.d/
```

```yml [compose.yml]
services:
  php:
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - 80:8080
    volumes:
      - .:/var/www/html
```

```php [public/index.php]
<?php
// Let's just print out some PHP info
phpinfo();
?>
```

::

In the example above, you can see in the `Dockerfile` we are copying our `entrypoint.d` directory to `/etc/entrypoint.d/` in the container. We're also setting the permissions to `755` so our scripts are executable.

## Running our example
When we run `docker compose up`, we can confirm our script is executing by checking the logs:

::code-panel
---
label: "Output of \"docker compose up\""
---
```txt
php-1  | 👉 [NOTICE]: Improve PHP performance by setting PHP_OPCACHE_ENABLE=1 (recommended for production).
php-1  | (init-webserver-config): Processing /etc/nginx/nginx.conf.template → /etc/nginx/nginx.conf...
php-1  | (init-webserver-config): Processing /etc/nginx/site-opts.d/http.conf.template → /etc/nginx/site-opts.d/http.conf...
php-1  | (init-webserver-config): Processing /etc/nginx/site-opts.d/https.conf.template → /etc/nginx/site-opts.d/https.conf...
php-1  | ℹ️ NOTICE (init-webserver-config): Enabling NGINX site with SSL "off"...
php-1  | 👋 Hello, world!
php-1  | [03-Nov-2025 19:35:29] NOTICE: fpm is running, pid 93
php-1  | [03-Nov-2025 19:35:29] NOTICE: ready to handle connections
php-1  | HTTP Status Code: 200
php-1  | ✅ NGINX + PHP-FPM is running correctly.
```
::

You can see our `👋 Hello, world!` is executing *after* the initialization of `10-init-unit.sh`.

## Running Custom Artisan Commands
If you need to run a custom artisan command at start up, you could update your `entrypoint.d/99-my-script.sh` file to look like this:

```bash [entrypoint.d/99-my-script.sh]
#!/bin/sh
# Check if the artisan file exists
if [ -f "$APP_BASE_DIR/artisan" ]; then
  # Run the custom artisan command
  php "$APP_BASE_DIR/artisan" my:custom-command
else
  # If the artisan file is not found, stop the container
  echo "❌ Artisan file not found in $APP_BASE_DIR"
  exit 1
fi

# Exit with a success code
exit 0
```

#### Best practices for running custom artisan commands
- Use `/bin/sh` for the best compatibility between Alpine and Debian. If you choose to use `/bin/bash`, your script will only be able to run on Debian-based images.
- Check to see if the artisan file exists before running the command
- Exit with a success code
- Name your file appropriately, so it executes in logic order with the other scripts (see our [default configurations](/docs/getting-started/default-configurations#default-entrypoint-scripts))

You can change the name of your file to whatever you want, but we recommend using a number prefix to ensure it executes in the correct order. For example, if you want to run a command after the default scripts, you could name your file `99-my-command.sh`. If you want to run a command before the default scripts, you could name your file `1-my-command.sh`.

## Advanced Scenarios: S6 Overlay dependencies
If you want to customize an image that uses S6 Overlay (`fpm-nginx` or `fpm-apache`), you may have an advanced scenario where you have a custom S6 service that needs to be executed after one of our entrypoint scripts. In order to do this, you'll need to move all our scripts from the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory to the `/etc/s6-overlay/scripts` directory. This would be a very time consuming scenario if you did this manually, but thankfully you can use our `docker-php-serversideup-s6-init` script to do this for you.

```dockerfile [Dockerfile]
FROM serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx

# Set the user to root for our build steps
USER root

# If you have your own one-shot scripts, copy them to the entrypoint.d directory
COPY --chmod=755 ./entrypoint.d/ /etc/entrypoint.d/

# Copy our entrypoint scripts into the S6 Overlay scripts directory
RUN docker-php-serversideup-s6-init

# If you have your own long running services, copy them to the s6 directory
COPY --chmod=755 ./my-s6-service/ /etc/s6-overlay/s6-rc.d/my-s6-service/

# Drop back to the non-root user
USER www-data
```

In the above file, we're copying our "one-shot" scripts to the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory and our long running services to the `/etc/s6-overlay` directory. One-shot scripts are scripts that are intended to run quickly and then move on. Long running services are services that are intended to run for a long time and need to be monitored and restarted if they crash.

The magic happens when we run `docker-php-serversideup-s6-init`. This script will move all our scripts from the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory to the `/etc/s6-overlay/scripts` directory and set the correct dependencies for our S6 services.

You can now reference our script names as dependencies in your own S6 service.

:u-button{to="https://github.com/just-containers/s6-overlay" label="Learn more about S6 Overlay" aria-label="Learn more about S6 Overlay" size="md" color="primary" variant="outline" trailing-icon="i-lucide-arrow-right" class="font-bold" target="_blank"}
