---
head.title: 'Adding your own start up scripts - Docker PHP - Server Side Up'
description: 'Learn how to use our entrypoint.d directory to customize your container start up experience.'
layout: docs
---

# Adding your own start up scripts
::lead-p
We provide a few [default scripts](/docs/getting-started/default-configurations#default-entrypoint-scripts) to get you going, but sometimes you want to just add your own. We've made it easy to do that with our `entrypoint.d` directory.
::

## Entrypoint Script Requirements
::note
Before you write your entry point script, be aware of the following requirements:

Your script should:
- Be executable (755 permissions)
- Located in the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory
- Have the file extension ending in `.sh`
::

We recommend writing your script in `/bin/sh` for the best compatibility between Alpine and Debian. If you choose to use `/bin/bash`, your script will only be able to run on Debian-based images.

## Choose your execution order
Since [we provide default entrypoint scripts](/docs/getting-started/default-configurations#default-entrypoint-scripts), you may want to choose the order in which your scripts are executed. We've made it easy to do that by prefixing your script with a number. The lower the number, the earlier it will be executed.

::note
If you want to disable our entrypoint scripts, you can set `DISABLE_DEFAULT_CONFIG` to `true` in your environment variables.
::

## Long running services
::note
Don't use entrypoint scripts for long-running services. You want your services to be monitored and restarted if they crash.
::

Anything in the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory are scripts that are intended to run quickly and then move on. If you run a service as an entrypoint script, that service may crash and not be restarted.

Instead, learn about [using S6 overlay](/docs/guide/using-s6-overlay) so your services can be properly initialized and monitored. See the [S6 Overylay project](https://github.com/just-containers/s6-overlay) for more details on how to write your own S6 service.

## Don't use `exit 0` in your script
If you use `exit 0` in your script, it will stop the execution of the rest of the entrypoint scripts. We recommend using `return 0` instead. [See this discussion](https://github.com/serversideup/docker-php/issues/481#issuecomment-2463082306) for more details on why.

Long story short, we don't use subshells to execute your scripts, so `exit 0` will not work as expected. We do this because we want to ensure your script has access to the environment variables that are set in the entrypoint scripts.

## Example: Create a custom entrypoint script
In this example, let's create a `99-my-script.sh` so it executes after all the other default scripts.

First, let's take a look at our project structure:

::code-panel
---
label: "Project Structure"
---
```txt
.
├── Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yml
├── entrypoint.d
│   └── 99-my-script.sh
└── public
    └── index.php
```
::
Let's take a look at the script that we want to run. We can keep this simple for now.

::code-panel
---
label: "99-my-script.sh"
---
```bash
#!/bin/sh
echo "👋 Hello, world!"
```
::

Now, let's take a look at our `Dockerfile`:

::code-panel
---
label: "Dockerfile"
---
```dockerfile
FROM serversideup/php:8.4-unit

COPY --chmod=755 ./entrypoint.d/ /etc/entrypoint.d/
```
::

In the above file, we're copying our `entrypoint.d` directory to `/etc/entrypoint.d/` in the container. We're also setting the permissions to `755` so our scripts are executable.

Finally, let's take a look at our `docker-compose.yml` file:

::code-panel
---
label: "docker-compose.yml"
---
```yaml
services:
  php:
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - 80:8080
    volumes:
      - .:/var/www/html
```
::

In the above file, we're building our image using the `Dockerfile` in the current directory. We're also mounting our current directory to `/var/www/html` in the container.

## Running our example
When we run `docker compose up`, we should see the following output:

::code-panel
---
label: "Output of \"docker compose up\""
---
```txt
example-project  | init-unit: Stopping Unit daemon after initial configuration...
example-project  | 2023/12/05 19:52:37 [notice] 29#29 process 33 exited with code 0
example-project  | init-unit: Waiting for control socket to be removed...
example-project  | 2023/12/05 19:52:37 [notice] 29#29 process 34 exited with code 0
example-project  | 
example-project  | init-unit: Unit initial configuration complete; ready for start up...
example-project  | 
example-project  | 👋 Hello, world!
example-project  | 2023/12/05 19:52:38 [info] 1#1 unit 1.31.1 started
example-project  | 2023/12/05 19:52:38 [info] 65#65 discovery started
example-project  | 2023/12/05 19:52:38 [notice] 65#65 module: php 8.4.0 "/usr/lib/unit/modules/php.unit.so"
example-project  | 2023/12/05 19:52:38 [info] 1#1 controller started
example-project  | 2023/12/05 19:52:38 [notice] 1#1 process 65 exited with code 0
example-project  | 2023/12/05 19:52:38 [info] 67#67 router started
example-project  | 2023/12/05 19:52:38 [info] 67#67 OpenSSL 3.0.11 19 Sep 2023, 300000b0
```
::

You can see our `👋 Hello, world!` is executing *after* the initialization of `10-init-unit.sh`.

## Advanced Scenarios: S6 Overlay dependencies
If you want to customize an image that uses S6 Overlay (`fpm-nginx` or `fpm-apache`), you may have an advanced scenario where you have a custom S6 service that needs to be executed after one of our entrypoint scripts. In order to do this, you'll need to move all our scripts from the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory to the `/etc/s6-overlay/scripts` directory. This would be a very time consuming scenario if you did this manually, but thankfully you can use our `docker-php-serversideup-s6-init` script to do this for you.

::code-panel
---
label: "Example Dockerfile"
---
```dockerfile
FROM serversideup/php:8.4-fpm-nginx

# Set the user to root for our build steps
USER root

# If you have your own one-shot scripts, copy them to the entrypoint.d directory
COPY --chmod=755 ./entrypoint.d/ /etc/entrypoint.d/

# Copy our entrypoint scripts into the S6 Overlay scripts directory
RUN docker-php-serversideup-s6-init

# If you have your own long running services, copy them to the s6 directory
COPY --chmod=755 ./my-s6-service/ /etc/s6-overlay/s6-rc.d/my-s6-service/

# Drop back to the non-root user
USER www-data
```
::

In the above file, we're copying our "one-shot" scripts to the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory and our long running services to the `/etc/s6-overlay` directory. One-shot scripts are scripts that are intended to run quickly and then move on. Long running services are services that are intended to run for a long time and need to be monitored and restarted if they crash.

The magic happens when we run `docker-php-serversideup-s6-init`. This script will move all our scripts from the `/etc/entrypoint.d` directory to the `/etc/s6-overlay/scripts` directory and set the correct dependencies for our S6 services.

You can now reference our script names as dependencies in your own S6 service.

[Learn more about writing your own S6 services →](https://github.com/just-containers/s6-overlay)
