---
head.title: 'Migrating from v2 → v3 - Server Side Up'
description: 'Learn how to migrate from serversideup/php v2 images to v3.'
layout: docs
---

# Migrating from v2 → v3
If you're moving from v2 to v3, there are a number of changes you should be aware of. We've tried to keep these to a minimum, but some of these changes were necessary to make the project more maintainable and easier to use.

## 🚀 New Features
We've been busy overhauling our PHP Docker Images to make them more production-ready and easier to use. Here are some of the new features we've added:
- **Official PHP Images** - We now use the official PHP images as the base image.
- **Pin to the exact minor version** - You can now pin to the exact minor version of PHP that you want to use. This means you can pin to `8.2.12` instead of `8.2`.
- **Easier customization with `entrypoint.d`** - We now have a folder called `/etc/entrypoint.d` that allows you to easily customize your container with scripts. Just put them in numerical order and we'll execute any shell script you want. No S6 Overlay knowledge required.

## ⚠️ Breaking changes
The following changes are considered to be "breaking changes" and will require you to make changes to your application.

### Ubuntu is no longer used as a base image
We now use Debian or Alpine as our base OS (because we're using the official PHP images as a base). This means any extensions to PHP need to be installed the PHP way (not with Ondrej/PHP PPA). If you're using things like `apt-get install php-redis` you will need to change your method of installing PHP extensions.

## S6 Overlay is only used in `*-fpm-apache` and `*-fpm-nginx` images
Due to compatibility issues, we only use S6 Overlay in our `*-fpm-apache` and `*-fpm-nginx` images. If you were using S6 Overlay for our other variations (cli, fpm, etc), you will need to migrate your scripts to use the new `/etc/entrypoint.d` folder.

### `SSL_MODE` is now set to `off` by default (HTTP only)
Running end-to-end SSL by default created more problems than good. By default, we're now shipping HTTP-only by default with the option for people to turn this on.

### `AUTORUN_ENABLED` is now set to `false` by default. 
Having this set to "true" by default also created more problems than good. If you want to use any of the Laravel Automation Scripts, be sure to set this to `true`.

### Variable deprecations
- `WEB_APP_DIRECTORY` has now been renamed to `APP_BASE_DIR`