---
head.title: 'Migrating from v2 to v3 - Server Side Up'
description: 'Learn how to migrate from serversideup/php v2 images to v3.'
layout: docs
---

# Migrating from v2 to v3
::lead-p
If you're moving from v2 to v3, there are a number of changes you should be aware of. We've tried to keep these to a minimum, but some of these changes were necessary to make the project more maintainable and easier to use.
::

::note
This guide is a work in progress during the beta. We believe we have all the major changes documented, but please [let us know](https://github.com/serversideup/docker-php/discussions/new?category=general) if you find anything that is missing.
::

## 👉 Preparing for the migration
If you're an existing user of our v2 images, be sure that your current configurations are NOT set to use the latest images. To do this, you can lock your images into the `v2.2.1` tag. This will ensure that you're not automatically upgraded to the v3 images.

For example, if you are using `8.2-fpm-nginx`, you would change your `docker-compose.yml` file to use the [`v2.2.1`](https://hub.docker.com/r/serversideup/php/tags?page=1&name=2.2.1) tag:

::code-panel
---
label: Original `docker-compose.yml` file
---
```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  php:
    image: serversideup/php:8.2-fpm-nginx
    ports:
      - 80:80
    volumes:
      - .:/var/www/html
```
::

::code-panel
---
label: Updated `docker-compose.yml` file
---
```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  php:
    image: serversideup/php:8.2-fpm-nginx-v2.2.1
    ports:
      - 80:80
    volumes:
      - .:/var/www/html
```
::

All you need to do is add `-v2.2.1` to the end of the image tag. This will ensure that you're not automatically upgraded to the v3 images.

### Testing the new images
You can start preparing for the upgrade by setting [`beta`](https://hub.docker.com/r/serversideup/php/tags?page=1&name=beta) to the image tag. This will allow you to test the new images in a development environment and ensure everything works well for the upcoming release.

## 🚀 New Features
We've been busy overhauling our PHP Docker Images to make them more production-ready and easier to use. Here are some of the new features we've added:
- **Based on official PHP Images** - We're now building an improved developer experience on top of the official PHP Docker images.
- **PHP 8.3 support** - We're now shipping the latest and greatest.
- **Pin to the exact minor version** - Pin your app to the exact minor version of PHP that you want to use. This means you can pin to `8.2.12` instead of `8.2`.
- **Easier start up script customization** - We now have a folder called `/etc/entrypoint.d` that allows you to easily customize your container with scripts. Just put them in numerical order and we'll execute any shell script you want. No S6 Overlay knowledge required.
- **Expanded Laravel Automations** - We added automations to run `config:cache`, `route:cache`, `view:cache`, `event:cache`, `migrate --force --isolated`, and `storage:link`
- **NGINX Unit Support** - We're offering NGINX Unit as a variation as an alternative to PHP-FPM. This allows you to run PHP applications without the need for a webserver like NGINX or Apache to run with PHP-FPM.
- **Available on GitHub Packages** - We're now publishing our images to GitHub Packages. This means you can use our images without needing to authenticate with Docker Hub.

## ⚠️ Breaking changes
The following changes are considered to be "breaking changes" and will require you to make changes to your application.

### Ubuntu is no longer used as a base image
We now use Debian or Alpine as our base OS (because we're using the official PHP images as a base). This is a huge change, but we're confident this will be the best direction moving forward.

### `ppa:ondrej/php` is no longer used
Since we're using PHP.net as the "official source of truth" for getting our PHP versions, this means we're also dropping support for the `ppa:ondrej/php` repostory. If you're using things like `apt-get install php-redis` you will need to change your method of installing PHP extensions.

[Learn how to install your own PHP extension →](/docs/guide/installing-additional-php-extensions)

### `webuser` is no longer being used
::note
This is still an area that we're exploring. Please chime in on the discussion if you have any thoughts.

[See the discussion →](https://github.com/serversideup/docker-php/issues/253)
::

We used to add a user called `webuser` with the UID of `9999`, but in the current beta we're not. This is an area that we're still going to explore during the beta, so please chime in on the discussion if you have any thoughts.

If you have mounted volumes, you will need to `chown` the files to match the ID of the `www-data` user and groups. For Debian, this is `33:33` and for Alpine, this is `82:82`.

### S6 Overlay is only used in `*-fpm-apache` and `*-fpm-nginx` images
Due to compatibility issues, we only use S6 Overlay in our `*-fpm-apache` and `*-fpm-nginx` images. If you were using S6 Overlay for our other variations (cli, fpm, etc), you will need to migrate your scripts to use the new `/etc/entrypoint.d` folder.

### `SSL_MODE` is now set to `off` by default (HTTP only)
Running end-to-end SSL by default created more problems than good. By default, we're now shipping HTTP-only by default with the option for people to turn this on.

### `AUTORUN_ENABLED` is now set to `false` by default. 
Having this set to "true" by default also created more problems than good. If you want to use any of the Laravel Automation Scripts, be sure to set this to `true`.

### Variable deprecations
- `WEB_APP_DIRECTORY` has now been renamed to `APP_BASE_DIR`
- `DEBUG_OUTPUT` has been removed for in favor of `LOG_OUTPUT_LEVEL=debug`